This is the teaching, and as we are looking back to the teaching itself, what the great master is
supposed to say in this teaching, and that is, start Dzogchen practicing, because we are really Bod
hicata, and Bodhicata is the foundation of the Dzogchen practices.
Bodhicata is, again, as you all know, that is thinking of all beings, to have the two sentient
beings, to benefit the two sentient beings. That is what it is, it is compassion.
And again, to do practice the compassion, and practice thinking of all sentient beings, then,
instead of me, we should also ignore our self, or one's own self.
If we want to help the two other beings, if we like to meet with the person, first, we have to
click our self. We have to change our self.
Change is not going to start from outside, from others, and we are really thinking as practitioners
. Change must be started practicing its self, from individual self.
That means, Bodhicata is not just focused outside, but focused with your self, through our self,
and how our negative emotions are developing, how it is expanding, how it is reducing, how it is
doing.
That is, we should look, read our mind, read our self, and that is what Bodhicata can be developed.
So Bodhicata practices not just start from outside, but start from in our heart, with our mind,
with your courage and your commitment.
Then, it is becoming true practitioners. Buddha teaching is observing in the heart, not going from
A to A, or from the right side A, and going to the left side of the ears.
It is really observing in the heart. That is what means. Resume the teaching, apply the teaching,
and reflect the teaching.
So that is what it means. When we have this beautiful root with both each other, let it shine below
in our heart and mind, and then, let that shine to the others.
With that thought, and then also, we are not going to wait to shine this with each other, to our
heart, to the others, and then in the second teaching of the kyokudas, what we say.
Reflecting the impermanent. Impermanent is right with us. It's not just going to come in the future
.
It is here, it is always with us, and we should take every opportunity to actualize our self,
improve our self, and not waiting for some other things.
We have to apply now. That is also known as the very good practices. And we should always think,
reflect the teaching as much as you can, every day and every time, and thinking of this situation,
empowerment, and all of these things.
And time is precious. Everything is opportune. It's teaching said many times, and you all know, we
all know.
This is everything is good state now. Everything is glory in beautiful status. And in 80%, the only
85% is good with us.
We have every reason to be joy and happy, and appreciate, and we are going to use this time for the
good improvement, the good things.
It's not going to stay forever with us. So therefore, sense of courage and commitment, and sense of
practical, more kind of like don't to the earth, and then use this time and the situation.
That is the great Master Chapposite, said, reflected in harmony. With that thought, a strong sense
of devotion, and joy and apprehension, all the time, kind of fill that richness, colleges, into the
heart and mind.
That is the life necessary. All these thoughts. And with those all thoughts, really, in the
teaching said, terra bhuj, and terra bhuj.
That rata bhuj and bodhicata is combined with this earth, bodhicata is the time of the past, and r
ata bhuj is the second.
So when we do this, fill the presence of all the enlightened beings, vodas, bodhisattva, all of you
are very much as in the teaching said.
Fill that presence with sorrow by all the enlightened beings, all of our hearts, the lineage of
Masters.
In front of that, we are going to reflect the bodhicata, develop the bodhicata.
And in that, in close, we connect it to Vadadarma Sangha, and then do all the beautiful prayers of
the bodhicata, and beautiful prayers of rafuj.
That jaini is nothing but reflecting the meaning that what you meditate.
So meditation and jaini, inseparably, and do that.
And finally, again, as my teaching said, as you all will know, then receive the blessings one after
another.
And finally, all of those of you, rafuj, is dissolved.
Dissolved within the life, and then life is dissolved back to our heart center, with our mind, and
meditate in the natural state of the doctrine.